# A-Physically-Based-Model-for-Thermo-Oxidative-and-Hydrolytic-Aging-of-Elastomers

A computationally efficient model is proposed to capture the loss of mechanical performance due to chemical aging that are formed as the competition of chain scission and cross-link formation/dissolution, such as thermo-oxidative aging or hydrolytic aging. The model should be considered an extension of our recent models which further simplifies the matrix behavior based on the assumption of independence of environmental and mechanical
damage. 
The model uses this assumption to reduce the necessary material parameters needed to model constitutive and inelastic behavior of elastomers during aging. To this end, the model can provide accurate predictions of the material performance with the significantly fewer number of fitting parameters.
The model is relevant for all decay mechanisms formed by the occurrence of two simultaneous micro-mechanisms; (i) formation/reduction of the cross-links, and (ii) chain scission, both of which are present in thermo-oxidation and hydrolytic aging. Assuming the alteration of the chain density along the aging trajectory is identical to the peroxide cross-link density for thermo-oxidation, and the change of the average molecular weight for hydrolysis, the strain energy of polymer matrix can be rewritten as a function of deformation, deformation history, storage time and aging temperature. Next, the modified network alteration model is formulated for implementation into Finite Element (FE) simulations. %The model is based on the assumption of homogeneous diffusion of water/oxygen and thus is mainly relevant for relatively thin samples exposed to environmental loads for a long time. 
The model is built on the presumption of homogeneous and consistent oxygen/water absorption and thus is mainly relevant for relatively thin samples exposed to environmental loads for a long time.
The proposed model includes only six physically inspired material parameters. Thus, while it is computationally efficient, it shows good agreement with own experimental data, which performed on various range of accelerated aging temperatures and times. With respect to its computational efficiency, simplicity, accuracy, and interpret-ability, the model is the right choice for advanced implementations in FE programs.


A Tutorial has been uploaded under the name of "output.mp4". You need x265 codec to play this video. I suggest use "PotPlayer" software.
